love this is chef john from food wishes
comm with buffalo bacon meatloaf that's
right this magnificent loaf of meat
features delicious and nutritious
buffalo and as if that wasn't enough
we're also going to cover it with
America's most ubiquitous breakfast meat
bacon and by the way I'm not one of
these people that will just add bacon to
anything I mean people go crazy with
this stuff I once saw a woman wearing a
dress made out of bacon although I do
have to admit she did look delicious but
anyway there's nothing gratuitous about
its addition here as it's going to
provide some much-needed fat and of
course flavor but anyway let's get this
started by cooking some of the
aforementioned bacon in some butter
oh yeah that's always a good way to
start a recipe so we'll cook some sliced
up bacon and a little bit of butter and
a skillet set over medium heat and we
want to cook this almost but not quite
crisp which is of course going to take
five or ten minutes so keep an eye in it
but while that's working we can go ahead
and get our vegetables together so in a
bowl I have a beautiful array vegetables
featuring onions carrots and celery
we're also going to do some mushrooms
and some pepper I have two kinds I'm
gonna use some red and a green poblano
and I think we'll also throw in a few
cloves of garlic that should be goodness
and what we'll do is we'll cook these
vegetables in that bacon butter mixture
but not like this what we want to do
first is grind these in the food
processor fairly small all right we
don't want a super wet puree but we do
want to pulse on and off until we have
something pretty fine and by the way
anytime you're doing something like this
make sure you stop a couple times and
take a spatula and scrape down your
sides so everything ends up about the
same size so we keep blitzing on and off
until we end up with something that
looks like this so like I said we're
going to grind it pretty small but we
don't want a big soupy mess here so go
to fine make it look like this and by
now hopefully that bacon that's been
cooking in the butter on medium is ready
so at this point we'll go ahead and
transfer the vegetables into our pan and
we'll cook those turn occasionally until
they soften and sweeten up for about
five minutes or so
all right we're not trying to caramelize
them or brown them but we do want to
take the riot off and while that's
happening I am going to add a small
pinch of dried rosemary I generally
don't like a really OB meatloaf but we
will stir in a little bit of dried
rosemary because that's going to work
really well with the bacon in the
Buffalo and then like I said we'll cook
that for about five minutes until it
softens up and kind of looks like this
and it's hard to tell by looks but if
you were to taste a little bit of this
it would not taste raw so that's looking
good at that
we will turn off the heat and move on to
the breadcrumb stage swimmable I have a
couple cups of fresh breadcrumbs those
are not dry that's just the inside of a
day-old loaf of Italian or French bread
and of course you can do that in your
food processor also I just broke them up
with my hands and what we'll do is we'll
add our cooked vegetable mixture to
these crumbs along with a splash of
whole milk and we'll give that a very
thorough mixing before we have the rest
of the ingredients
speaking of which we don't want to add
those if this mixture is really hot so
once we mix this up we should probably
let it cool to room temp before adding
the rest of the ingredients
now did I not really I lit a cool little
but it was still kind of warm but
officially let it cool to room temp and
then once that does cool down we will
proceed with the rest of the ingredients
which include some freshly ground black
pepper and some salt of course we also
want to give it a few dashes of
Worcestershire sauce as well as one
large egg and then let's do just a
little shaker Cayenne or big shake up to
you you are the meatloaf of your
meatloaf and then what we'll do is we'll
give this a mix before adding the star
of the show the Buffalo and by the way
while it is nutritious and delicious
ground Buffalo does provide a couple
challenges it's generally very very lean
and for whatever reason it's sold ground
very finely are two things that aren't
necessarily great if you're making
meatloaf so to counter that that's why
we're doing the recipe with fresh
breadcrumbs and all those vegetables
this way despite the issues with the
buffalo meat we're still going to get a
very juicy very moist loaf so we'll toss
in a couple pounds and we'll mix that
all together I'm going to use my bare
hands is it's the best tool for this and
once we do have this all mixed together
we will transfer it into a lightly
greased baking dish and form it into
your classic meatloaf shape what is that
four or five inches wide three or four
inches high and at this point if you
were just making regular meatloaf you
just toss it in the oven but we're not
we are going to shroud this in bacon and
if you do shape yours into a similar
size one strip of thick cut bacon should
fit perfectly over the top with just
enough on either end to tuck it in so
we'll cover that in bacon then as you
can see if need be you can use the tip
of a knife to kind of finish pushing
that bacon underneath and that is
looking bacon-wrapped and ready for the
oven so at this point we can transfer
our meatloaf into the center of a
preheated 350 degree oven for about an
hour or until done
as you shoot for an internal temp of
about 155 and by the way if you want
about halfway through we can pull out
the meatloaf and baste it with a glaze
and yes the step is optional but I do it
because I'm all about that baste bout
that baste it's no trouble just takes a
minute so I'm gonna brush over a very
simple brown sugar glaze I'll give you
the recipe on the blog but it's just
rice vinegar brown sugar and mustard and
once that's been applied we can go ahead
and pop that back in until like I said
we have an internal temp of about 1:55
at which point we'll pull it out and you
should be looking at one of the most
beautiful Meat Loaf's you've ever seen
and then I know it's not going to be
easy but you really do want to let this
sit for at least ten minutes before you
cut into it but I was starving I wanted
to finish the video so I sliced right in
and as you can hopefully see from this
shot we have a meatloaf that's not only
beautiful on the outside but incredibly
tender and moist on the inside I mean
look how juicy that is so let me go
ahead and cut off one nice big slice and
serve it up properly next to some
veggies and mashed potatoes
along with some classic mushroom gravy
by the way mushroom gravy sold
separately I know we have a video for
that or you could just make a gravy with
the drippings and I hope it's pretty
obvious to see how incredibly moist and
tender this meatloaf really is it really
does melt in your mouth and of course
the bacon helped and what is Buffalo
taste like pretty much exactly like
grass-fed beef and what does grass-fed
beef taste like pretty much like
corn-fed beef except maybe the tiniest
tiniest bit more gamey and I mean really
tiny you probably won't even notice it
okay so Buffalo is nothing to be afraid
of unless of course you're talking about
an actual live Buffalo they can kill you
but as far as ground Buffalo meat goes
there's nothing to fear as I hopefully
showed you here so I really do hope you
give this a try head over to food wishes
calm for all the ingredient amounts and
more info as usual and as always enjoy
you